The follow up question to this would be how can we now calculate how much work was done in order to
build the system.
Right so we brought the first charge here and then we went all the way really far.
Then we brought this second four micro cool on charge and kept the first one fixed right.
We put potential energy into the system so the way you calculate work by any conservative force.
Let me just read it like this.
And conservative force so this could apply to anything.
Now remember the force is not constant.
So we can't really use just the force multiplied by the displacement guy.
However whenever there is a conservative force we always have a potential energy associated with it.
And for the electric force this is the potential energy.
So the way you calculate the work done by the conservative force.
Let me not forget this right here.
Right force down here.
In this case it's the electrical force.
It's always minus the change in the potential energy.
So let me show you how you would apply to this system.
So again if I do negative a change it's always a final value of potential energy minus an initial value.
If you bring this negative side through you multiply through in this case it ends up being the initial
potential energy minus the final potential energy.
All right.
This is what we calculated for our problem here this here is really the final potential energy of the
system.
What is the initial potential energy.
Well initial is when this charger was really really far away when it was far away the initial is actually
this guy right here because we had to go get it from somewhere and then place it here.
So the initial potential energy for us is zero.
And my final is this so I can calculate that the work done in this case by the electric force is going
to be negative zero point zero to four joules.
So why is it negative.
OK it's important understand why it's negative again as you're bringing this charge closer.
This guy here was fixed kind of glued it there as you're bringing the second one closer remember there
is an electric force acting on it but as I brought it closer the displacement is actually in this direction
now although I can't use the equation force times displacement to calculate it.
I can still use it just to look at is the work going to be positive or negative.
And in this case the force is this way the displacement is this way when those when those two vectors
are opposite of each other you always get a 180 degrees between them that would always give you a negative
work.
So the electric field does negative work in this problem.
That means that my applied force would do the opposite of that.
And in this case this would be zero point zero to four joules OK.
So I would end up doing positive work and this is how much work I did.
This is how much energy I've stored in this system.